Add 11.0 release note (#101)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-04-17-mondoo-11.0-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.0-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.0 is out!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

> ## 🥳 Mondoo 11.0 is out! This release includes Firewatch our new risk prioritization system!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🥳 Mondoo 11.0 is out! This release includes Firewatch, our new risk prioritization system!
```

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

> ### Introducing Firewatch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Introducing Mondoo Firewatch
```
Dom is doing this just to be extra careful about legality.

#### Expose risks that compromise assets

RISK DEETS

#### Prioritize findings with a whole new space experience

FIDGET SPINNER DEETS

#### Learn More

> For a deeper look at what we do and how it works see our Firewatch blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a deeper look at what we do and how it works, read our [Firewatch blog post](https://mondoo.com/blog/mondoo-firewatch).
```

## 🔨 BREAKING CHANGES

### End of life for cnspec/cnquery 9.x

> With the release of cnspec and cnquery 11.0, we are no longer supporting our legacy 9.x releases. While this does not immediatly mean your clients will stop working, we will start updating policies to utilize new MQL functionality introduced in version 10.0. This functionality will improve the readability of queries as well as the scan output, but is not compatible with older clients. If you need assistance with upgrading older clients please reach out via our [Support form](https://mondoo.com/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the release of cnspec and cnquery 11.0, we are no longer supporting our legacy 9.x releases. This does not mean your clients will immediately stop working. However, we will start updating policies to use new MQL capabilities introduced in version 10.0. These changes will improve the readability of queries as well as the scan output, but they are not compatible with older clients. If you need assistance with upgrading older clients, please reach out via our [Support form](https://mondoo.com/support).
```

### New default JSON CLI output

> cnspec's `--json` flag now uses our updated `json-2` output format by default. If you rely on the original json output you can still set that with the `--output json-2` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cnspec's `--json` flag now uses our updated `json-2` output format by default. If you rely on the original JSON output, you can still set that using the `--output json-2` flag.
```

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Windows 11 compatibility policy

> Enable the new Windows 11 compatibility policy to see if existing Windows workstations meet the hardware requirements for Windows 11. This policy includes several different checks for CPU, RAM, TPM, and hard drive space requirements. To learn more about these hardware requirements see Microsoft's [Windows 11 Specs & System Requirements](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-11-specifications) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the new Windows 11 Compatibility policy to see if existing Windows workstations meet the hardware requirements for Windows 11. This policy includes several different checks for CPU, RAM, TPM, and hard drive space requirements. To learn more about these hardware requirements, read Microsoft's [Windows 11 Specs & System Requirements](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-11-specifications) page.
```

### CIS Azure Foundations 2.1.0

> Mondoo now includes the latest CIS Azure Foundations 2.1.0 benchmarks. This new release of the policy includes 82 total updates including 7 all new checks and the removal of 8 checks that are no longer relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mondoo now includes the latest CIS Azure Foundations 2.1.0 benchmarks. This new release of the policy includes 82 total updates, including 7 all-new checks and the removal of 8 checks that are no longer relevant.
```

### Console performance improvements

> No one wants to wait for web pages to load. That's why we sprinkled some magical optimizations on how the console fetches space and asset data to make sure pages are always snappy to load.

Reviewer: Love this. :)

### Updated Mondoo Microsoft Azure Security policy

> The Mondoo Microsoft Azure Security policy has been rewritten from the ground up with new and expanded queries that match the latest Azure capabilities including Microsoft's Entra ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We rewrote the Mondoo Microsoft Azure Security policy from the ground up with new and expanded queries that match the latest Azure capabilities, including Microsoft's Entra ID.
```

### Additional organization owner privileges

> Organization owners can now remove users from a space without being added as a space owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organization owners are no longer required to be space owners in order to remove users from a space.
```

---
slug: mondoo-11.0-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.0 is out!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.0 is out! This release includes Firewatch, our new risk prioritization system!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Introducing Mondoo Firewatch

Mondoo version 11 ships with our all-new Firewatch feature, which helps you to surface critical risks and prioritize the most important findings first.

#### Expose risks that compromise assets

> Not all security findings are created equal. With Firewatch, we combine contextual risks on the asset and downstream system exposure to elevate the most important findings first with risk scores and factors. Elevating risk allows you to move beyond the fire hose of security findings and instead fix the issues most likely to impact your business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all security findings are created equal. With Firewatch, we combine contextual risks on the asset and downstream system exposure to elevate the most important findings first. Elevating risk allows you to move beyond the fire hose of security findings and instead fix the issues most likely to impact your business.
```

New views for advisories, CVEs, and assets show risk scores and factors to expose the importance of fixes for your infrastructure.

![Advisories](/img/releases/2024-04-17-mondoo-11.0-is-out/advisories.png)

> Dive deeper into invidual risks with exposure and downstream impact information throughout the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dive deeper into individual risks with exposure and downstream impact information throughout the console.
```

![CVE Details Page](/img/releases/2024-04-17-mondoo-11.0-is-out/cve.png)

#### Understand the impact of a fix

It feels good to kill two birds with one stone. Findings in Mondoo now include a blast radius, so you can understand how many systems are impacted by a finding and resolve a large number of findings at once.

![Blast Radius](/img/releases/2024-04-17-mondoo-11.0-is-out/blast_radius.png)

#### Prioritize findings with a whole new space experience

> Your time isn't limitless, so it's crucial to understand quickly the most important work to be done. In addition to our new risk scoring, we've reworked the UI to focus on the most critical issues first. The all-new spaces dashboard features a sunburst dial for navigating critical findings in your overall infrastructure as well as ranked lists of both vulnerabilities and security findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your time isn't limitless, so it's crucial to understand quickly the most important work to be done. In addition to our new risk scoring, we've reworked the UI to focus on the most critical issues first. The all-new space dashboard features a sunburst dial for navigating critical findings in your overall infrastructure, as well as ranked lists of both vulnerabilities and security findings.
```
